.TH COMMITTY 1 "March 2025" "committy 0.1.0" "Committy Manual"

.SH NAME
committy \- AI-powered git commit message generator

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B committy
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B committy
is a command-line tool that uses AI to generate high-quality commit messages from your git changes. It analyzes the diff content and produces a formatted message following conventional commits standards.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.

.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry\-run
Generate a commit message without actually committing. This is useful for previewing what the commit message would look like.

.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-format=\fIFORMAT\fR
Specify commit message format. Available formats: conventional, angular, simple. Default is conventional.

.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-model=\fIMODEL\fR
Specify the LLM model to use. If not provided, uses the model specified in the configuration file or the default (gemma3:12b).

.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-edit
Open the generated message in an editor before committing. This allows you to make manual adjustments to the message.

.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config=\fIFILE\fR
Specify a configuration file location. If not provided, uses the default location (~/.config/committy/config.yml).

.TP
.BR \-\-init\-config
Generate a default configuration file at the default location or the location specified with --config.

.TP
.BR \-\-verbose
Increase output verbosity. Can be used multiple times for even more verbosity.

.TP
.BR \-\-no\-confirm
Skip the confirmation step and commit directly.

.TP
.BR \-\-with\-scope
Force inclusion of scope in commit message.

.TP
.BR \-\-max\-tokens=\fINUMBER\fR
Limit the LLM output token count.

.TP
.BR \-\-analyze
Analyze changes without generating a commit message.

.TP
.BR \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Basic usage:
.B committy
.TP
Preview commit message without actually committing:
.B committy --dry-run
.TP
Use a different LLM model:
.B committy --model=phi3:mini
.TP
Use a different format:
.B committy --format=simple
.TP
Create a default configuration file:
.B committy --init-config
.TP
Analyze changes without committing:
.B committy --analyze

.SH CONFIGURATION
Committy uses a configuration file located at ~/.config/committy/config.yml. You can generate a default configuration file with \fB--init-config\fR.

Configuration can also be set using environment variables:

.TP
.BR COMMITTY_MODEL ", " OLLAMA_MODEL
Set the model to use.

.TP
.BR COMMITTY_FORMAT
Set the commit message format.

.TP
.BR COMMITTY_MAX_TOKENS
Set the maximum number of tokens for LLM output.

.TP
.BR COMMITTY_TEMP ", " AUTOCOMMIT_TEMP
Set the temperature for LLM generation.

.TP
.BR EDITOR
Set the editor to use for editing commit messages.

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.BR git
Git version control system.

.TP
.BR ollama
Local LLM runtime for text generation.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR git-commit (1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Claudio.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <https://github.com/claudio/committy/issues>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 Claudio. License MIT.